---
layout: post
author: matt
title: Wait. Who am I?
---

Don't worry, not gonna bury the lede. 

I'm just a guy, effecting a career change. Writer to software developer. Not an uncommon transition, from what I can tell. 

I've had to do a lot of work to pull this job switch off. Learning how to code is just a part of it. 

Another part — and I think, an important one — is assuming a new identity. How do I start to think of myself as a "programmer", instead of a "writer"?

Maybe that sounds fuzzy-wuzzy, or trivial, or vague to you. I would have agreed with you when I first started out. Nine months in, I don't think so anymore! 

Quite a few moments in my career-transition process were *way* harder than they needed to be, just because I was uncomfortable thinking of myself as a programmer guy:

#### Processing frustration

Frustration is an essential part of any meaningful work. A solid self-identity, one that lines up with what you're trying to do, can be the difference between overcoming that frustration, and succumbing to it. 

When I, as 'Writer Matt', had problems with my day-job as a content writer, it was easy to find my way around them. 

"""
Okay, so this piece isn't gelling quite like you want. It's okay. You got this. Take a break and come back to it in a little while. You'll figure out what to do.
"""

Contrast that response with how I met my coding problems. When Writer Matt hit a nasty bug, it felt borderline catastrophic. The stories I told myself about these (pretty minor, in retrospect) failures was both cruel and untrue.

"""You don't get this stuff, Matt. And you'll *never* get it. You're not a programmer! You're a right-brained, wooly-headed, artsy-fartsy, absent-minded, *writer*. Disgusting!"""





#### Accepting limitations

#### Shrinking away





### Following my curiosity
- Wrote about CS-y stuff for other companies
- AI, NLP, etc
- What are those? How do they work?
- Becoming conversant in those things tripped my trigger
    - "Knowing the name of a thing is nothing like knowing the thing"

### Producktionslust
- Wanted more control of the means of production
- Wanted to be closer to the 'source' 
- Wanted more say in the 

### Feeling my ceiling
- Income's part of it, for sure
- But definitely not all of it



